Here are some shortcuts I've used when working with QuestaSim. These are only a small selection of
the functions Questa offers. I try to include only what has worked for me so far, please feel free
to modify/erase/expand as needed!

INSTALLATION
1. Download and setup Quartus Prime
    -QuestaSim should be included with your Quartus Download.
    -Trying to open Questa may not work as you need a license, so...
2. Obtain the license for QuestaSim from Intel's Self Service Licensing Center
    -You will have to make an account, but the license should be free
    -Instructions here:
    https://www.intel.com/content/www/us/en/docs/programmable/683472/22-1/and-software-license.html


Here is how I ran a simulation in QuestaSim after creating the modules in VSCode:

(for Windows Users)
Before starting, make sure the DUT and TB are in the same directory. Since this directory will
also hold the work library for your compiled designs, it might be a good idea to keep this
separate from your working Github directory to reduce clutter and not risk overwriting anything.

1. Open the Command Prompt

2. With the prompt, navigate to the directory with the DUT and TB (cd filepath)

3. Enter this command: 

    vsim

    -The Questa GUI should open.

4. Locate the tcl shell at the bottom of the GUI. It should be titled "Transcript".
    - If it doesn't appear, navigate to "Layout" on the taskbar and click "Reset"

5. Create the "work" library if you have not done so. Type this in the shell:

    vlib work

   -The work library should appear in the directory you are in. It will be empty.
   -QuestaSim will compile to the library named "work" by default. It is possible to change the
    default library if desired, but I chose to stick with this.
   - I believe you only have to do this once if you use the same directory (yet to test).

6. Compile your designs with the following command in the shell:

    vlog nameofdut.sv nameoftb.sv

    -Replace with the names of your design and testbench
    -If there are any errors in your Verilog, you will get an error message. Fix these and try
    running this command again.
    -I believe you have to recompile if you make changes to either file.

7. In the "Library" window, click on the plus sign to the left of the work library

8. In the drop down under the work library, you should see both compiled files. Right click on the
   TESTBENCH file (not the design!!) and click on "Simulate" (first option)


FOR VIEWING WAVEFORMS
1. Right click inside the "Objects" window, select "Add to", then "Wave", then "Signals in Region".
   OR try running this command for inividual signals:

    add wave sim:/nameoftb/nameofsignal

   ...or for all signals:

    add wave sim:/nameoftb/*

   -You should see all your signals appear in the "Wave" window.


RUNNING THE SIMULATION
1. In the terminal, use the following command. You can run it for any time period(10ns, 5ms, etc.):

    run 1us

2. Adjust the waveforms by right clicking and changing zoom if necessary (Zoom Full/Zoom Cursor)

3. To restart the simulation and clear the window, type:

    restart


ASSERTIONS
1. If you use these statements in your top file...

    assert(condition) else $error("error message")

   ...then a message will display in the shell if said condition is not met
   -Great for troubleshooting!


TO QUIT
1. Type the following in the shell:

    quit -sim


TO EXIT THE GUI
1. Exit out with X on top of the GUI or type this in the shell and select yes:

    exit
